---
layout: post
title:  "America : A Hope for the Future"
date:   2016-01-04 12:13:10
---

American society is unique in that its citizens come from all corners of the globe. Just as genetic diversity produces a stronger breed, societal diversity produces a stronger nation. Arriving from distant lands and culture, immigrants are a cultural bridge to nations around the globe. Immigrants hold the promise to our future and memories to each past. A tolerant and open society allows every American to partake in those experiences and grow. This is why America's place in the world is special, and will always be special.

As Americans head into the 21st century, Americans should reflect on their future. American society is advancing at a rapid pace. With social media and the spread of mobile, American voices and ideas are reaching a broader audience. With advances in healthcare, Americans are living longer. With advances in internet and education, Americans are learning more about themselves
and the world around them. Like how America continually advances its technology, America must also continually advance its thinking. Americans must think the thoughts of the future, and not the thoughts of the past.

This rapidly arriving future will hold no place for those radical groups that reject the openness of modern society for the stifling thoughts and rigid norms of the past. Such a form is a lost dream. It may be  perfect only, because it exists as a memory and legend of the past. It appeals only to those who are losing grasp or those who feel trapped or those who have trouble finding their place in modern society, perhaps those who judge modern dwellers as too brusk and unapologetic or those who judge modern lifestyle too complicated and confusing or those who judge the present-day media too shallow and hypocritical.

The society of today is not perfect, because no one can be perfect. Everyone is imperfect. Yet it is these imperfections that make us who we are, human. Imperfections give rise to diversity, and diversity generates strength.

I believe that the America can play an important and active role in the world. In an era, where hate and goodwill outrun missiles, I do not believe that role will be imperialistic. The train has left that station a long time ago. I believe that America's legacy will not be what we take from others, but how America advances culture and basic human rights for others.

The Iraq invasion and the spread of social media has ushered in a inevitable sea of change in the Middle East. Oppressive regimes have fallen and will continue to fall. As Americans, we should stand by and be prepared. With a steady hand, we must guide the new orders on a path that will aid the oppressed and is compatible with Western morals and values. This path may not lead to a stable democracy. However, hopefully, it will be one that promotes culture and advances human rights for all. Only then can we open a dialogue that is meaningful.
