---
layout: post
title:  "Flag Kneeling : Why You Should Not Do It"
date:   2017-09-24 14:58:00
---

In the United States, kneeling during the singing of the national anthem and the presentation of the American flag is an issue of etiquette not of law. A kneeler might get ugly stares from his fellow bystanders, but he will not be jailed. History has shown that social organizations will develop formal rites and rituals. These rites and rituals reinforce their members' bond to the organization and to one another. Consistent participation has been judged as a profession loyalty.

For many Christian churches, these rites and rituals take center stage. Members are encouraged to attend Mass regularly, during which they perform the church's own unique rituals around the theme of the Last Supper and Crucifixion. And non-participation would interpreted as abandonment of the church.

Because it has always valued people first, America does not burden its citizens with an excessive amount of pomp. Americans do not have attend churches every Sunday nor do they have to memorized and recite centuries old text. The only thing that seems obligatory is standing during the singing of the national anthem and the presentation of the American flag. And this only seems to happen at large sporting events.

Indeed as an American, you should be thankful that the government does not require you to stand, nor it frequently request you to stand. So standing holds power and meaning only because many choose to do it when requested. And many more others like them, have done it through the years.

Like the Crucifix, the flag represents something greater. The flag is neither Republican nor Democrat. It is neither black nor white. It not only embodies the principles of the Constitution, it also reminds us of times when we have fallen short. It is our past, present, and future. It reminds us of the many we have lost in war, as well as those we will lose.

From this perspective, flag kneeling can be offensive. It is even more so when stars athletes do it, because others will soon copy. Perhaps there will come a time when no one stands or when we have forgotten to stand. Perhaps then, we will no longer be considered a nation.

Such are intricacies of flag kneeling, undoubtedly, of which many Americans are unaware. After all, many Americans, athletes, and young are more noted for their irreverence than etiquette.
